Hamlet Fernandez
Jan 12, 2021

Computer Architecture for Scientists (Winter 2021)

Homework #1

Problems from Chapter 1

1.1 Enumerate five devices in your daily life that have computers inside today, but didn’t
20 years ago. For each, explain why computing benefits the device. For the user, and for
the company who sold it.

Nintendo switch
Lightbulbs (bluetooth lights)
Google Home(speakers, radios)
Headphones
OMNY (apple pay, transportation)
Debit card


1.3 The integration of computing and networking have accelerated many activities in
society, e-commerce is one example. Analyze the steps to identify and purchase an article
of clothing in a world without the internet, smartphones, and e-commerce. Analyze the
steps in today’s modern world. Explain how the latency to receive the desired article has
changed. Explain how the time investment required of you has changed.

Without internet, smartphones, e-commerce?
    traveling outside, going to a store, individual, group of individuals, selecting wanted article, purchases with physical currency
    dollars, coins, greeting/goodbye etc etc.  perhaps can try on clothes! can see quality of clothes!

today's modern world?
    google item you  want, where's it sold? many options many websites. can be done on phone, laptop, google home/alexa devices (interactive AI)
    not necessary to meet with people physically, can buy an article of clothing without meeting anyone. but also cannot try on clothes or 
    see quality of clothes

1.6 Another pervasive communication-use of computing is social media. Describe several features of how 
you interact with social media, and how computing is used to create posts, decide when they are visible, 
and even target advertising?

facebook groups, polls, voting systems, comments sections, replying to comments, liking disliking hearting posts
discord, groups, channels, video calls, phone calls, reactions, import own reactions, create reactions
using discord you can see what others r listening to if enabled, people themselves send promotive content


Problems from Chapter 2


